# Blockchain
A blockchain based model to securely share and store medical imaging records and data.

A decentralised web application was developed which allows a medical technologist to send medical image files to a patient. The file itself is stored off chain in IPFS while blocks in blockchain store the corresponding ipfshash. A few tools were utilised to develop the model. Firstly, Ganache was used to run a local blockchain. It provides ten free accounts with fake Ether that were used to carry out the transactions. The private and public keys of these accounts were used for encryption and decryption. Secondly, Metamask was used to connect to the local Ethereum network. The system was connected to an IPFS node instance with the help of Infura for uploading image files. Thirdly, the client-side website was created to communicate with the smart contract with the help of Truffle framework. And finally, Solidity programming language was used to write the smart contract. 

There are two types of user interface from the perspective ofsender (medical technologist) and receiver (patient). With the help of Google developer tools,the  right  most  side  of  both  the  Figures  show  what  happens after each step in order to cross check.

From  the  medical  technologist’s  point  of  view,  Step  1  of the  proposed  model  involves  logging  into  the  account  and selecting  the  medical  image  to  be  sent.  Once  the  “Upload” button is clicked, the file gets uploaded to IPFS and generatesthe corresponding ipfshash. This echoes Step 2 of the proposedmodel. Next, the public key of the target patient (receiver) isentered and the “Encrypt” button is clicked. This encrypts theipfshash with the patient’s public key. Once “Send” is clicked,the  encrypted  ipfshash  is  stored  in  the  blockchain  which  issimilar  to  Step  3  of  the  proposed  model.  A  certain  amount of  Ether  is  deducted  from  the  technologist’s  account  for  thistransaction.

From  the  patient’s  point  of  view,  after  successfully  logging into the account as mentioned in Step 4 of the proposed model,the patient clicks “Get Hash” and the encrypted ipfshash sentto  the  patient’s  address  is  received,  just  like  Step  5.  Next, private key is entered and “Decrypt” is clicked. If the privatekey is correct, the patient will be able to retrieve the ipfshash.If  not,  an  error  message  is  displayed.  Next  on  clicking  “GetImage”,  the  medical  image  is  retrieved  from  IPFS  using  thedecrypted ipfshash. This concludes Step 6.
